Ruud van Nistelrooy is once again the focal point at Manchester United, almost two decades after ending a five-year spell leading the line. 
The boots were hung up long ago and he has swapped the famous red shirt for a tunic and long coat but it is like the old days as the Old Trafford fans elongate his first name. 
Ruuuuuuuud was the chant when he left the tunnel to take charge of his first match, leading United to a much-needed 5-2 Carabao Cup victory over Leicester. 
United laid down a marker but with Chelsea’s visit on Sunday and a first Europa League win of the season required against Paok four days later, the Dutchman knows this is not a busman’s holiday, 
even for someone who has maintained his hero status despite an acrimonious exit in 2006. 
I want to help, I want to do everything I can in my abilities, as many others do, to fight for this club,” said Van Nistelrooy, who returned in July as Erik ten Hag’s assistant. 
The club is in a difficult situation and it is not where we all want it to be. 
The challenge is there. Everyone is looking at Man United and the situation it is in but it is up to us as people on the ground to do the utmost, supported by fans. 
It is a process and it is something to work for and do everything for. 
With Rúben Amorim waiting to join from Sporting in November’s international break, the caretaker manager knows his fate and timeframe, alleviating pressure. 
It is, on the other hand, a chance for Van Nistelrooy to prove his worth as a member of the backroom staff. 
Ole Gunnar Solskjær might have thought he had little chance of becoming the permanent manager when he stepped in after José Mourinho was dismissed. 
It helped the Norwegian that he was parachuted in from the outside as United looked to steady the ship with a legendary figure, whereas Van Nistelrooy has been on 
the touchline all season behind Ten Hag, watching the team fail. Van Nistelrooy has similar connections to Solskjær’s and spoke before his Old Trafford managerial debut to 
Sir Alex Ferguson, another figurehead who reminds supporters of better days. It was special to come back to the club and the city, Van Nistelrooy said. I enjoy being around Manchester, 
the players and staff – not many [staff from his playing days are] still around. I decided to come back here for a very important reason: that I am here as an assistant. I came here to help 
the club move forward and I am still very motivated to do so in any capacity, as an assistant and now an interim manager. After that I go back to my assistant contract that I have for this season and next.
Van Nistelrooy followed a similar path to Ten Hag with his formation against Leicester. This is not the time for revolutionary thinking; that should come from Amorim. Pressure had been built up before Ten Hag’s 
tenure stumbled to its final demise at West Ham and the players looked more relaxed against Leicester, but they know Sunday poses a far more difficult equation. This is no audition for Van Nistelrooy
and his popularity will not wane, regardless of the next three games, but he will want to stand aside as a legend, whether he moves back into the shadows or exits Old Trafford to make way for Amorim’s 
backroom staff. Unlike Lee Carsley during his time in charge of England, he will not have to deal with questions about a desire to take the job because everyone knows what comes next and when.
Van Nistelrooy found out during a spell at PSV about the complexities of managing a big club that he knows well. Somehow he will have to balance the enjoyment of having his dream job with the knowledge 
of its brevity and the need to get results to leave United in a better place.
# source -- text is copied from https://www.theguardian.com/football/2024/oct/31/ruud-van-nistelrooy-manchester-united-future